Okay, so in the last few modules, you got
the lay of the land.
You know who we are, you know who our sellers
are, and you know what we actually offer
them.
Now let's talk about how deals move through
our system.
Like, from the very first time a lead pops
into our CRM all the way through to a signed
contract. Because there is a system, and you
need to know it cold.
This is the BMH Sales Pipeline.
It has six stages. Every single lead in our
CRM lives in one of these stages at all
times. Your entire job boils down to moving
them forward through these stages, or
disqualifying them and moving on.
Nothing just sits there collecting dust.
If a lead isn't moving, something's wrong.
So let me take you through each one.
Stage one is lead capture.
This is ground zero. A lead enters our
system from somewhere.
Maybe it came from marketing.
Maybe a cold caller got them on the phone.
Maybe they called us. Maybe they texted back
to a campaign.
Maybe someone referred them.
At this point, all we really have is the
basics.
A name, a phone number, a property address,
and whatever scraps of info the source
captured. Nobody has had a real conversation
with this person yet.
They're just a name sitting in the CRM
waiting for somebody to reach out.
And that somebody is you.
Your job here is simple.
Make first contact. Call them.
Text them. Email them.
Whatever it takes to start a conversation.
If you can't reach them, they stay in stage
one with a follow-up task assigned.
You don't move them forward until you've
actually had a live conversation with the
seller. That's the exit.
A real, live, two-way conversation.
Stage two is qualification.
So you've made contact.
Cool. Now you need to figure out if this is
someone we can actually help.
This is where you ask the initial qualifying
questions.
Is this person the decision maker?
Do they actually want to sell?
Or were they just curious?
Is the property in one of our markets?
Is there enough equity for a deal to even
make sense?
Are there any obvious red flags that would
kill this before it starts?
Your job at this stage is to run through
that qualification checklist.
Confirm the basics. Ownership, property
type, location, general motivation, rough
timeline. You move them out of stage two once
the seller passes initial qualification.
They're the owner, the property fits what we
buy, and there's at least some motivation
there.
Stage three is discovery.
And honestly, this is where the real magic
happens.
You've confirmed the basics.
Great. Now you dig deeper.
What's actually going on in this person's
life?
What's driving them to sell?
What happens if they don't sell?
What's their real timeline?
Not the polite answer, but the honest one.
What have they already tried?
This is the heart of what you do.
Discovery is where you build trust, where
you uncover the real motivation hiding
underneath the surface level answers, and
where you gather all the detailed information
our acquisition team is going to need to put
together an offer.
Your job here is to have a deep, genuine
conversation.
Understand their situation fully.
Fill in every detail in the CRM.
Condition, motivation, timeline,
expectations, financial
situation, who's involved in the decision.
You're done with stage three when you can
clearly explain to someone else why this
person wants to sell, what their timeline
looks like, and what they'd need to see to
move forward.
Stage four is handoff.
The seller is qualified.
They're motivated. You've done your part.
Now it's time to pass this lead over to the
acquisition team so they can evaluate the
property and present an offer.
And I want to be really clear about this.
The handoff is a critical moment.
A sloppy handoff kills deals.
I've seen it happen more times than I can
count.
You need to package everything you've learned,
the seller's story, what's motivating
them, what they're expecting, all the
property details, and pass it cleanly to the
acquisition manager.
Complete the handoff checklist.
Brief the acquisition manager on the seller's
situation, their hot buttons, what to be
careful about. Then either warm transfer the
seller while they're still on the phone
with you or set a specific appointment for
the acquisition's call.
You're done with stage four when the
acquisition team has accepted the lead and has
everything they need to take it from here.
Stage five is offer review.
The acquisition team presents the offer.
The seller reviews it.
There might be some negotiation, counter
offers, questions back and forth.
This stage is primarily run by the
acquisition team, but you might get pulled in.
If the acquisition manager needs you to call
the seller or provide additional context
about something that came up in your
conversations, you jump in and help.
Stage six is contract.
The seller accepts the offer.
Contract gets signed. The deal moves to the
transaction team for closing.
At this point, your work on this particular
lead is basically done.
You might send a congratulatory text or help
tie up a loose end, but the transaction
team handles the rest.
And the relationship you built through all
those earlier stages, that's what made it all
possible.
So let me be really clear about where you
live in all of this.
You own stages one through four.
That's your world. Stage one, you make first
contact.
Stage two, you qualify.
Stage three, you discover.
Stage four, you hand off.
Stages five and six are handled by the
acquisition and transaction teams.
You support when they ask, but your primary
focus is getting leads from stage one all
the way to stage four, as many as possible
and as thoroughly as possible.
And that's the pipeline.
Six stages and you own the first four.
But here's the thing. Inside every one of
these stages, there's a conversation
happening. And every conversation you have
follows a five-step framework.
That's what we'll break down next.
I'll see you there.